Estrada pena 2003
"If the time to travel from one patch to
another is higher than the feeding time of the parasite,
ticks from the origin patch cannot reach the destination
patch in a single ‘‘step’’."
"In the former,
patches predicted as suitable may be occupied or
empty, according to their status within the landscape
network. In the latter, control efforts may be negated
by colonization by ticks from nearby patches."
"Verboom et al. (2001) introduced the key patch
approach. They defined a key patch as one with a
carrying capacity large enough to sustain a relatively
large local population in a network, and close enough
to other patches to maintain a constant exchange of
individuals."
"Ixodes ricinus has
catholic feeding habits (Ta¨lleklint and Jaenson 1998)"

VanAcker 2023
Has great intro on how connectivity and landscape comp can affect animal movement
"Landscape-dependent fragmentation (LDF) alters the
physical configuration of habitat patches, preventing species
from moving freely across the landscape as patches
become increasingly isolated (Berger-Tal & Saltz, 2019;
Magle et al., 2014)."

Used ctmm to ID outliers
used adehabitatLT to "regularize trajectory segments to a 2h fix"
used GLMM to see if gardens visited by deer had ticks

Didn't just use the habitat at a point, instead included the area around it using a buffer
"We then estimated
the area of med-high-dev within buffers (varying
from 100 to 800 m at 100 m increments, thus applying
a multi-grain assessment (McGarigal et al., 2016)) surrounding
each used and available location."

Has good starting iSSF model formulas - interesting addition of using the start land use to better ID step interactions

Has good stuff in supp material how the cut-offs for deer speed in GPS data
Has summary of speeds per 2h

"As HR size increased, the percent natural landcover
decreased while the percent urban landcover within
the HR increased alongside habitat diversity (Figure 2b).
A higher percent urban landcover within the HR was associated
with larger HR size"

run a null model iSSF that is just movement

has good deer context stuff in discussion regarding them avoiding daylight and making use of human dominated areas
good discussion of deer movement times in relation to tick dispersal


Martin et al 2018

starts with a great intro on connectivity

"Following Bjorneraas et al. (2011), we eliminated
potentially erroneous data points (\0.001% of
the total locations) when two consecutive steps formed
spikes (Bjørneraas et al. 2010) by removing location i
when the step lengths between i-1 and i, and i and
i ? 1 were[500 m and the relative turning angle at
location i was\± 5 for all successive locations
obtained every 10 min."

"For each pixel of
the map, we calculated the Euclidean distance to the
nearest element of each of these features, because
movement within a given habitat may be influenced by
proximity to a second habitat (Conner et al. 2003;
Thurfjell et al. 2014). For example, a roe deer may use
crop fields (high quality feeding) only when in close
proximity to woodlands (for escape refuge; see Coulon
et al. 2008)."

has great results on the interactions of distance from woodland and how selection changes the farther they travel from that safety
Also temporal interactions

"Overall, our results indicate
that proximity to woodlands is key to the perception of
risk when foraging in open habitats or close to humans,
and that hedgerows may constitute a substitutable
refuge habitat with similar forage resources
(Morellet et al. 2011)."

hint that the time animals move in relation to tick activity will impact actual functional connectivity
"The potential role of vector species for tick transfer,
nutrient fluxes and seed dispersal may thus be lower
than expected from connectivity maps which pool
seasons and periods of the day."

Panzacchi et al 2015

Has a great breakdown for defining barriers and corridors in connectivity
Their approach - define landscape resistance from SSF - run circuit flow but with a varying ability for the animal to be attracted to destination - calibrate the attraction by comparing resulting paths to dBBMMs OD

Kilpatrick et al 2016












